Public, private, private Cloud
Public Cloud
• A Public Cloud is Cloud Computing in which the 
infrastructure and services are owned and operated by a 
third-party provider and made available to the public over 
the internet. 
• The public can access and use shared resources, such as 
servers, storage, and applications and the main thing is you 
pay for what you used.
• Examples of public cloud providers – are Amazon Web 
Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform 
(GCP)
Advantages
• Cost Efficient
• Automatic Software Updates
• Accessibility
Disadvantages
Security and Privacy Concerns:
Limited Control
Reliance on Internet Connectivity:
Service Downtime
Compliance and Regulatory Issues
Private Cloud
• A Private Cloud is a cloud computing environment in which the 
infrastructure and services are owned and operated by a single 
organization.
• it is accessed by only authorized users within that organization.
• Private Cloud organizations have their own data center. 
• private cloud provides a higher level of security.
Advantages
Security Status:
Customization of Service:
Privacy:
Disadvantages
Higher Cost
Limited Scalability:
Technical Complexity:
Security Risks: 
Lack of Standardization:
Maintenance and Upgrades:
Hybrid Cloud
• A hybrid cloud is a combination of both public and private cloud
• take advantage of the benefits of both types of clouds.
• It can provide greater flexibility, scalability, and cost-effectiveness 
than using a single cloud environment.
Advantages
• Flexibility: Hybrid cloud stores its data (also sensitive) in a private 
cloud server. While public server provides Flexibility and Scalability.
• Scalability: Hybrid cloud Enables organizations to move workloads 
back and forth between their private and public clouds depending on 
their needs.
• Security: Hybrid cloud controls over highly sensitive data. and it 
provides high-level security. Also, it takes advantage of the public 
cloud’s cost savings.
• Disadvantages
Complexity: 
Cost:
Security Risks:
Data Governance:
